welcome back to two treats this week
we're making Wiener schnitzel and noodle
Wienerschnitzel is best described as
crispy thin meat so the first thing
you're going to need to do is pound out
your protein we placed our pork chops in
between a piece of saran wrap we do this
because it protects the outside of the
meat from getting mashed and push it up
when you're pounding it flat
after you're done tenderizing and
pounding out the meat you can take some
salt and pepper and be sure to spread it
evenly on both sides then it's time to
set up your batter stations for for pork
chops one egg will work perfect in our
batter station so we crack that into a
pan and quickly whisk it up then we're
going to put a flower on one plate and
our bread crumbs on the other which we
just use from old bread that we toasted
and dried ourselves then we take the
pork chop basket in the flour dunk it in
the egg and make sure you get the
breadcrumb spread evenly on both sides
when your battering your pork chops its
gonna get a little messy so dive right
in with those fingers Wiener schnitzel
is made with four common proteins on the
lean side you've got turkey and chicken
and on the other side you have pork and
veal if you're staying traditional then
you better be using feel because Wiener
schnitzel is one of the national dishes
of Austria where by law if you're using
that name it must be made with veal now
there is some debate over when Wiener
schnitzel was originally created ranging
from between the 15th and the 17th
century but we do know earliest recorded
record of the use of the word wiener
schnitzel was in 1845 in go the pork
chops into our nice hot oil be sure to
give the pan a shake so that you spread
the oil evenly over the pork chops and
avoid them from sticking to the bottom
well three and a half minutes in and we
give them a quick flip for another three
and a half minutes as we make a fast
salad and grab a wedge of lemon for
tradition and then it's time to eat
time for canoodle the first thing we
need to do is peel our potatoes and be
sure to cut out any dark spots you might
find they're about the color of a small
bruise toss the potatoes and some
boiling water and boil them up until
they are about fork tender then remove
them from the water and allow them to
cool before shredding once the potatoes
are cooled it's time to prepare our
dough grab a potato and a grater or a
rice press if you have one and grate up
those potatoes into nice thin strips
once you do that you're gonna create a
hole in the center where you're going to
add your flour and the egg the hole is a
nice way to keep the egg for running
while you're preparing your dough take a
spatula and start to mix the potato
flour and egg you want to continue to
use the spatula to mix it until it
begins to bind and clump together once
you do that add your salt and then grab
it with your hands and start working it
together just like a loaf of bread knead
the dough back and forth until it
continues to bind and turns into one
solid ball
communal our potato dumplings but can
also be made with old bread
they're often served as a side dish to
meat but they can also be stuffed with
clumps for a yummy dessert or served
inside a soup
they are known around the world for many
different names for instance in Czech
Republic they're called and hungry
they're called in Italy they're called
in Luxembourg
they are called in the United States
they're called overall I call them
delicious once your dough has binded and
balled up it's time to make the
individual dumplings grab off a small
chunk of the dough and roll it back and
forth in between your hands as we just
showed each one of our dumplings was
about an inch to an inch and a half in
diameter
once you finished making your dumplings
it's time to throw them back in some
boiling water you'll start to float
after about 5 to 10 minutes and that
means they're just about done once the
dumplings are all done grab a slotted
spoon and be sure to drain the water
from each one place them onto a plate
and today we just seasoned ours with
some crushed black pepper and a little
bit of basil
thank you for joining us as we continued
our European food tour and stay tuned
next week as we continue the
international food tour heading east
towards Asia if you're on YouTube always
remember to subscribe right up above
like and favorite this video down below
if you're not on YouTube you can always
find us on Facebook Google+ and Twitter
leave us a comment send us the recipes
let us know how we're doing and what you
think thank you for watching and always
remember to keep on cooking